hey guys welcome to my channel and
welcome to palo alto california today
we're going to talk about a
very very popular word among every
english language speaker be it a student
or a native speaker
and that's a word no i know a lot of you
guys use it all the time i use it all
the time
but there are situations in our daily
lives that are
kind of inappropriate for just a no
imagine something like you're going out
you're grabbing coffee and then
in the line to get a coffee you're
meeting your neighbor
and the neighbor is like do you want to
take a walk back home with me together
and you're like no that sounds a little
unfriendly
i would be really sad if i offered
someone to take a stroll with me and the
other person be like no
so there are some ways that you can say
the same kind of thing you can say that
you can't take a walk or whatever
but you can use milder phrases that
wouldn't offend other people
that will be just more appropriate for
certain situations
and we're gonna learn those phrases
today one of the most polite ways to say
no
is to say i am afraid not so again let's
go back to the situation where
i'm grabbing coffee and i'm seeing my
neighbor and
the neighbor says do you want to go back
home with me together
and i say i'm afraid not i still have
something
to do in downtown so this way
i am still refusing but i'm doing it in
a more polite way so
i think the most polite way to say no is
to say i am afraid
not i am afraid not the next phrase is
not really and the appropriate situation
to use not really is when you talk about
liking or not liking something so for
example
do you want to grab a pizza with me not
really
i'm trying to stay away from gluten for
the next 30 days this is such a common
answer here in california
everyone is trying to stay away from
gluten or dairy or
sugar which is healthy but i just see
this huge trend and
sometimes you just want to grab pizza
and drink coca-cola with somebody
and a lot of people just don't do it
very often so
you're kind of stuck to healthy food
which is again great so do you want to
grab pizza with me
no not really i'm staying away from
gluten for the next 30 days but we could
grab sushi together
not really and the next phrase sounds
like probably not
or possibly not and here
i want you to pay attention to the way
i'm saying it so
we tend to read it probably which is
again the right way to say it but when
americans talk to each other in daily
lives
they tend to speak faster so they're
kind of emitting
some sounds and they say probably
probably not
probably not try to say it with me
or if you're struggling with pronouncing
this you can say possibly not
you use this phrase when you are
uncertain
so you think you can do something but
there's still some possibility that you
might for example
do you think you're gonna win this
contest probably not my opponents are so
strong
or possibly not uh because i haven't
prepared for it
probably not the next phrase is not
to my knowledge and not to my knowledge
is a very formal phrase
that is widely used in a business
environment for example you come into an
office
and you were waiting for a package and
you're asking the receptionist
uh have you received this package from
london and she's like
not to my knowledge because i was away
yesterday so this is not to my knowledge
i see it all the time in formal emails
this is a phrase that is used when
people don't want to mislead you
and at the same time they want to be
helpful so they're like not too my
knowledge but you can ask peter
john or whoever not to my knowledge now
in the second part of this video we're
gonna start talking about informal ways
of saying no
but there's just something i wanted to
remind you about about this western
culture where
a lot of people don't just say no they
try to use those phrases that we're
learning
they try to leave the door open and this
is something that i'm seeing a lot in
silicon valley
for example when we try to raise money
in russia people would just say no
your company is bad we don't like it
here in silicon valley they said your
company is amazing we love what you do
but we're afraid that we're not able to
invest at this time because
we have a different investment strategy
and you're like
they are not ready to invest at this
time that means i can come back later
like in two months and then you come
back later and you still hear the snow
so here people don't say no directly
but they say in a more polite way so
they don't defend you
and again because they want to leave the
door open because what happens here in
silicon valley is that sometimes
your first company is not the best one
but in a couple years you come up with
an amazing idea
and those investors still want to have
good relationship with you
and this applies to everything this
applies to networking this applies to
talking to friends so you always want to
leave the door open you don't want to be
in the business environment you don't
want to be like 100 no go away you're
bad
so and this is why we're learning those
phrases but when you're talking to a
good friend
and you don't really care because you're
still gonna be friends even if you say
no to something
then there are some other phrases that
you can use instead of saying no
and phrase number one is certainly not
and this is a
very strong no so for example some
people are asking me
do you want to go back to san francisco
i'm like certainly not
i enjoy living in a countryside so
countryside fallout no
i enjoy living closer to nature so much
so certainly not i'm not going back to
san francisco in the next couple months
just because i like my new lifestyle
certainly not when you can't believe
that someone is serious about asking
something
you can say you must be joking so for
example imagine a situation
we're looking at a house and we like it
and then we ask the real estate agent
how much is it and the real estate agent
says it's eleven thousand dollars a
month
uh do you want to rent it my answer
would be
you must be joking eleven thousand
dollars a month and by the way this is
like the average
rent here in the area where we are right
now i know this is crazy
but yeah my answer would be you must be
joking i won't be able to pay that much
a month
to rent an apartment you must be joking
by the way guys before i move on to the
next phrase i have a question for you
i'm doing this kind of small
research so i know you probably watch a
lot of other
english language youtubers who teach you
english can you just tell me
down in comments below why you watch my
channel what makes it special so i could
double down on it for example if you
tell me like oh marina i like how you
talk about
you know living in the u.s then i would
double down on that
or i just like generally the topics of
your videos
i would double down on that or maybe you
just like that i'm foreign as well and
i am a english language learner and i'm
originally from russia and you just like
that
just write it down in comments below
that would be really really useful guys
i appreciate it i appreciate your help
and this is a great way for you to
practice english so really looking
forward to reading your comments down
below
why are you watching this channel
another phrase that people use here
when they really want to say no like 120
know for example the situation is do you
want to go to the movie theater tonight
uh-uh there is no way i'm going to a
movie theater tonight
because i'm just afraid of this virus no
way i'm going out in the public so i
will say this as
120 no no way
and i wanted to wrap up with some casual
ways um
to say no so for example in a restaurant
you know in the us they serve free water
all the time
and uh when you've had enough water and
the server comes with water and says do
you want more water and you can say
no no i'm good that means that's enough
or you can just say i'm good
i'm good and the waiter would understand
that you don't want any more water
i'm good you can also say not right now
that means again maybe you would be
willing to do something later
do you want to go for a walk not right
now i'm recording a video
not right now nah not really
again another way to say no do you want
to get a new book
nah i still have to read uh 20 books
that i was meant to read last month
no yep nope
yep nope uh i heard that song back in
2015 and i knew it's gonna be a hit
and then it became a hit through tick
tock that's amazing
and a very strong way to say no is to
say never
do you think you're gonna go back to
jack never
never again never that was it for me
guys for today thank you so much for
watching this video up to the very
end if you want to learn more english
with me please make sure to check
english.online that's my handbook for
every english language student
that has a lot of material on vocabulary
on
different ways of saying different
phrases grammar a little practice
a list of bloggers that you can follow
list of tv shows that you can watch to
improve your english
the link is down below english at online
thank you guys so much
subscribe this channel if you're not yet
subscribed and i will see you very soon
in my next videos bye